# Why this repo was created?
The HL7 Cross Group Project workgroup (https://confluence.hl7.org/display/CGP/Cross-Group+Projects+Home) launched a project (https://confluence.hl7.org/display/CGP/C-CDA+to+and+from+US+Core+Mapping) to develop a mapping between the C-CDA 2.1 and FHIR R4 US Core standards. Because various vendors have developed their own mappings, there is a need to coordinate these efforts and to align them with the guideline that is currently under development. For this reason, we created this repo to host non-PHI CCD construct as a shared inbound document, and asked vendors to use their mapping engine to produce outbound FHIR resources/bundle/composition. A subset of the vendors then take the outbound FHIR bundle as the inbound data and created outbound C-CDA document to represent their FHIR to C-CDA mapping. 
This allows for comparison of the mapping outcomes for the same source document across different vendors in the field. To help align the mappings, we have also hosted weekly calls and FHIR Connectathon track to discuss the different perspectives. For more information, please visit https://confluence.hl7.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=139662703.
Because of the iterative nature, the mappings in this repo represent vendors' output at the time of the upload, but do NOT necessarily represent the current or final version what the vendors' engine will produce, nor does it represent HL7's final recommendation. 

# What is in this repo?
This repo includes an inbound CCD construct, outbound FHIR mappings from the CCD; outbound C-CDA generated by the FHIR bundle (generated by the same inbound CCD). Also, discussion slides are included that contains detailed comparison of vendor's mappings.

# How is this repo organized?
For C-CDA to FHIR mapping example, the "Input" folder hosts the shared input CCD, the Output and Reformatted folder host the output FHIR artifacts. In the FHIR folders, they are further broken down by different clincial domains to facilitate easy comparison. Each vendor's file are indicated in the filename. The difference between those in the "Output" path and "Reformatted" path are in the order of the data elements within the mapped resources. The former contains the data elements in their original order from vendor's submission, whereas the data elements are re-ordered in the "Reformatted" path, so that they follow the same sequence to allow easier comparison between vendors. The "Scripts" path contains the JavaScript script and related node package information to allow vendors to reformat their own individual resource.
The FHIR to C-CDA mapping contains the source FHIR bundle and the mapped C-CDA doc.

# How may I use the repo?
For C-CDA to FHIR mapping - Start with the input CCD to understand the inbound data, and then check out the Output or Reformatted folder for the FHIR resources of the respective clinical domains. 
For FHIR to C-CDA mapping - use the FHIR bundle and the mapped C-CDA together to understand the transformation.
NOTE: Because of the iterative nature, the mappings in this repo represent vendors' output at the time of the upload, but do NOT necessarily represent the current or final version what the vendors' engines will produce, nor does it represent HL7's final recommendation. 

# How may I contribute?
For C-CDA to FHIR mapping - The easiest way to contribute is to download the input CCD from the "Input" folder, run it through your C-CDA to FHIR mapping engine, and upload the outbound composition/bundle in the Output/Bundle-Complete folder (please create a new folder to represent your company). 
You might then choose to parse the data to the individual clinical domains and upload to the respective subfolders in the "Output" path, and/or use the script to reorder the data elements in your individual FHIR resource and upload to the "Reformatted" path. You may also email chun.li@availity.com to get assistance in parsing your bundle to individual resources and reorder them.
For FHIR to C-CDA mapping - start with a fhir bundle (produced by your engine or use one from this repo), and produce the outbound C-CDA to upload to the proper path. 

# How may I get additional information or assistance?
You may contact Chun Li at chun.li@availity.com. 

